1a The Ace of Swords in the Past position can represent a past event when you planned ahead and acted quickly. It probably has some effect on your life now, and you’re seeing the effects of researching everything and acting when the time was right. For example, you may have noticed trends and acted at the right time. Following your instinct has led you to where you are now.
1a

1b The Ace of Swords in the present position can be interpreted from it’s past position. You’re currently in a period of change. It may possibly be violent, but if you’re the one causing the violence or stress, you need to calm down. Acting rashly isn’t always a bad thing, but make sure it’s you who is controlling your actions, and not your emotions. Think things through and then act. You don’t go off to war without preparing.
1b

1c The Ace of Swords in the future position can suggest a strong potential outcome, a life you are happy with if you’re willing to work for it. It isn’t about earning money, it’s about reaching your potential, especially in a creative field. Don’t rush into any schemes, but read about them. Learn as much as you can and act upon the information.
1c

2a The Two of Swords in the Past position can represent a period of your life where you felt stuck. Decisions could be made to help you out, but you kept putting it off. We have to be aware of our actions, inaction is sometimes even the right choice, but don’t let that become a way of life. You can’t avoid everything.
2a

2b The Two of Swords in the present position means you should stop putting it off. Just do it. You can weigh the options up for eternity but more often than not you will regret not doing it rather than doing it and failing. Balance is that; good experiences and bad experiences are experiences. Would you rather experience things, or would you rather shy away from life?
2b

2c The Two of Swords in the future position reminds you of your current state of mind and personality towards tough decisions. Its something you need to tackle soon or it’ll take over your life. You can spend forever thinking about the routes your life can take, but you don’t want to. All the time you spend thinking means you’re still at the crossroads and not on the journey.
2c

3a The Three of Swords in the Past position can represent an intense period of depression that has affected your current life and mindset greatly. We can always learn from these experiences. It’s important to treat the past objectively. The reason bad experiences are ‘bad’ is so we can learn from it so that it doesn’t happen again.
3a

3b The Three of Swords doesn’t bode well for your current situation. If you aren’t happy, you need to start identifying ways out. If you’re staying sad for attention, then stop immediately. It’s hard to admit that you like sympathy, but some of us do it because we’re too afraid to try and fail. A failure is a victory if you learn from it. That’s a time old adage that loses meaning because it’s repeated so much, but it’s true. Learn from your mistakes, make more mistakes, and learn from them.
3b

3c The Three of Swords in the future position can mean that your life is currently on a downward curve. You don’t need to keep doing what you’re doing, even if it feels impossible. Even if you think you’re at rock bottom, you have it within yourself to change your life. What were you worrying about five, ten, fifteen years ago? Do you still worry about those things?
3c

4a The Four of Swords in the Past position can represent a period of time in the past where you were focused or obsessed with one thing. This may have kept you from interacting with others or sharing, and it has truly affected your life now. You may also have dealt with something traumatic or shocking that changed you as a person, and you’re only just recovering from it; a breakup or a death, perhaps.
4a

4b The Four of Swords in the present position can mean that you’re currently feeling like you don’t want to interact or socialise. You just need some space to yourself. This isn’t a bad thing! To be ‘on’, we must have ‘off’ periods. Treat yourself to some ‘you’ time. If you’re currently working in a group and you feel it isn’t going right, look into taking it solo, it might be the best choice you can make right now.
4b

4c The Four of Swords in the future position can mean that you’re going to have to do a lot of thinking in the future. You might be working towards something now, but soon you’ll need to consider what it is that you actually want, and start devising plans to achieve this. The opinions of others are always valuable, but you can’t keep getting told to do things, you need to interpret and think about things yourself. If you’re working hard now, then expect a well earned rest coming!
4c

5a The Five of Swords in the Past position will represent a period in your life when you had no solid foundations to fall back on. You came out of it though, and now you’re here. We all see failure in our lives, but it’s only through learning from them that we grow. Great people aren’t just great. They have tried and failed and built up their own foundations.
5a

5b The Five of Swords in the present position means life is tough right now. Someone specifically may be antagonising you. You need to walk away from anything that isn’t productive. If you’re getting bullied, for example at work or at school, tell somebody and sort it out. Get a third party involved if you are experiencing any discomfort in life. Don’t suffer in silence. Sometimes all it takes is for somebody to listen to our thoughts.
5b

5c The Five of Swords in the future position would initially seem like a bad thing, a conflict in future. Now that you know, you can prepare yourself for it. Analyse where potential conflicts could arise and stop them before they start. Think days in advance and try to understand the patterns that cause your life to go the wrong direction. Is it when you talk about a certain topic with somebody, or go somewhere at the wrong time?
5c

6a The Six of Swords in the Past position can represent a period of conflict in the past that you managed to overcome or escape from. It can also represent somebody who has ‘saved’ you from a period of your life when you felt like you were stuck in a rut. You’re out now, and life has improved since.
6a

6b The Six of Swords in the present position can suggest that your life is on the up. Present burdens will soon be gone. You won’t be running away from your problems, but merely understanding that they no longer need to affect your life. You’re going to grow and you’ll realise later how far you have come.
6b

6c The Six of Swords in the future position is extremely reassuring. It shows that no matter what, you will overcome future problems. This is a given, you might think, you’re still here despite facing many issues The six of swords in the future position should give you reassurance – no matter what happens you will persevere.
6c

7a The Seven of Swords in the Past position could mean a past period of conflict, but more strongly signifies a time when somebody went behind your back to do something either to spite you, or otherwise through malice. It’s affected how you think and feel, but luckily you’re aware of it now. You’re learning to trust people again.
7a

7b The Seven of Swords in the present position can mean that somebody is working on a scheme that will affect you negatively. They may even be pestering you or goading you into doing something which you’ll regret. You’ll have to be the bigger person in this case and either ignore it or take productive steps to stop this happening. If you’ve drawn the Seven of Swords in the present position, make sure to check the ‘Life issues’ below for further information.
7b

7c The Seven of Swords in the future position suggests that the path you’re currently on will irk and bother some people. This doesn’t mean it’s the wrong decision by any means. If you understand how your plans may annoy others, look into tweaking them to make things easier for everyone, yourself included.
7c

8a You might have felt trapped in the past but you’re away from that now and experiencing a new level of freedom. You remember the struggles it took to get you to where you are now, it was certainly painful. Recognise what led to that position and try to avoid it in future. This could relate to a job you just didn’t enjoy, a place you were living, people you didn’t like being around but are now free from.
8a

8b Life isn’t at all without struggle or pain. Bad experiences help you learn and grow so we cannot avoid them at all. Life might seem tough right now but just remember that it’s only a transitional period and the pain will go. Everything may seem impossible or too much to cope with, but remember, all you have to do is persevere and you’ll eventually break free. The problem comes with giving up. Your willpower is more than you think it is.
8b

8c Understand that life is just a series of trials. It’ extremely rare that a life is peaceful and without negative influence. You will always have to deal with things you’d rather avoid, but you can make each ordeal easier by keeping it relative and in proportion. You’re never alone, even if you think you are; the woman is blindfolded but not gagged.
8c

9a Stress and worry are a large part of your recent past. Life may have gone through a shift that you’re just recovering from. It might have been extremely eventful and traumatic. Don’t assume that future interactions will have the same outcome as they have had in the past. Life isn’t set; but dynamic and things changed over time.
9a

9b The Nine of Swords in the present position is not a good sign. If you’re not already suffering, expect something seemingly bad to happen. You’ll feel simultaneously under pressure and out of control. Prepare yourself and you’ll be able to weaken the blow. Life is always full of trials however, and you can make it through.
9b

9c The Nine of Swords in the future position suggests a life of worry and anguish if you continue down your current path. Try to identify aspects of your life which may be holding you back or making your life seem more negative. Nobody wants to be unhappy. If you’re doing something right now that you’re not enjoying, don’t hesitate to give your life a bit of thought. Is this a good idea, will it really pay off?
9c

10a The Ten of Swords in the Past position can relate to a past event or time in your life where everything went wrong. You were at complete rock bottom. Despite this, here you are. You’ve grown from the experience, and while it was something you’ll remember for your life, it’s help you grow as a person. Past lessons that led to it happening should be deeply ingrained in you so you don’t make the same mistakes again.
10a

10b The Ten of Swords in the present position means that something important to you is about to finish or end. It will change your life, and it’s likely something you do not want to see happen. Prepare for the worst, but remember once it happens, thing can get no worse, you can only go up.
10b

10c The Ten of Swords in the future position suggests that the current path you’re taking in life will lead to your destruction. You may have to re-evaluate where you’re headed and drastically change your lifestyle if you want to achieve your goals.
10c

11a The Page of Swords in the Past position can represent a past event where you were a little too ambitious and focused. It could have been a time when you experienced a vision of what you wanted your life to turn out like, and it gave you great motivation. You went for it, but you may have alienated others that would have helped you. Are you an arrogant person? It might be time to reflect and learn lessons.
11a

11b The Page of Swords in the present position should make you reassess your personal relationships with others. Do you have a strong or overbearing personality? You should tone it down a little. Try not to think you’re better than others, because they might rank their lives differently to you. Not everybody is minimalist or materialistic, some value wealth and others do not. There is always a contrary point that is just as valid.
11b

11c The Page of Swords in the future position can mean that you currently feel locked down and restrained.  We all want to be free. Sometimes, more often than not, you have to work for it. Don’t expect the benefits of changing your life to come without the related hardships.
11c

12a The Knight of Swords in the Past position can represent a history of working to the numbers and being clear cut. You might have worked in an authoritative job or otherwise been in charge of people. If you’re still doing this, consider if it’s the right choice; you may have outstayed your welcome both for the people you work with and your own personal growth.
12a

12b The Knight of Swords in the present position means you’ll soon be offered a chance to change your life. The key is that the actual offer might seem small, but the reward will be greater than current imagination. It’s suggested that you take the offer, no matter how small. Life opens up to us when we say yes to things, but doors close when we say no.
12b

12c The Knight of Swords in the future position suggests that the near future will be structured and methodical. If this is what you want, stick to the plans you’ve set out. Sometimes, people can ask things of us that disrupt what we want to do, but it’s usually better to help others over yourself first. Plans should be changeable too, you can plan your life but you can’t control it.
12c

13a The Queen of Swords in the Past position can represent you, or someone in your life in a position of authority. Commonly, this can be a female teacher or other female that had a great influence on you. Use this person as an example; it might sound cheesy, but what would they do in your situation?
13a

13b The Queen of Swords in the present position can represent a strong current female influence in your life; you may also think about her romantically even though nothing of the sort could ever happen. Take their advice on board. It may not fit in exactly with your world-view but certain points will be useful. If  there is nobody like this in your life, expect someone matching this description to make an appearance soon.
13b

13c The Queen of Swords in the future can represent what you are going to become. Wise, but not without empathy. You’ll have influence, but be approachable. This does bode well if you are entering work or another area of life where you’ll be a minority. Be prepared to stand out.
13c

14a You may have been extremely mature for your age and help more responsibility than average. People considered you to have authority over a subject, you were the ‘go-to’ person for it. Life may or may not be the same now, but the lesson to learn is that you can always harness that sort of power if you dedicate yourself.
14a

14b The King of Swords in the present position would suggest a ‘father-figure’. You should take what they say seriously, even if they haven’t followed what they believe in. They may have the best advice, but just because they haven’t followed it doesn’t make them any less right. Look for someone with a lot of experience who is truly interested in help you for your sake, and not their own.
14b

14c The King of Swords in the future position symbolises the path you’re currently on; a life you are happy with if you’re willing to work for it. It isn’t about earning money, it’s about reaching your potential. You have the ability, determination and drive to reach your goals. The only thing stopping you is yourself. Don’t give up.
14c

15a The Ace of Wands in the Past position can represent a past event when you just ‘went for it’. It probably has some effect on your life now, and you’re seeing the benefits or possibly negative effects of taking that one chance. It could have been something like a quick career change, a new person you met, or spontaneously going to a new place.
15a

15b The Ace of Wands in the present position can be interpreted from its past position. you’re going to be faced with a choice that could dramatically affect your life. Be extremely open to new business ideas, even more so if they’re regarding art or a creative field. if you’re looking for a job, it might be a good idea to expand your horizons to these industries, you might have skills that are in demand!
15b

15c The Ace of Wands in the future position can suggest a strong potential outcome, a life you are happy with if you’re willing to work for it. It isn’t about earning money, it’s about reaching your potential, especially in a creative field. You have to give it your all, through a mixture of passion, applied talent and effort. If you have a goal in mind, you must start today. I na few years, you might be a completely different person.
15c

16a The Two of Wands in the Past position can represent a past event where you left your comfort zone, specifically with somebody you know. The past, and future are two aspects of our life that we have little to no control over. look to the past for inspiration, and look to the future with ambition, not worry.
16a

16b The Two of Wands in the present position is related to the Ace of Wands. Imagine the Two of Wands has triggered your path, and the Two of Wands is you moving along it. If you need help with whatever it is you’re working on, now is the time to look to someone. As with any ‘two’, there’s going to be some decision making soon, so be prepared for it, especially if you know what your choices are.
16b

16c The Two of Wands in the future position can suggest a strong, happy future life. You’ll feel as if you’ve got it ‘all worked out’. Remember to keep looking to the past to avoid mistakes. It’ll be helpful to work out what your past choices have done for you, and how to steer good choices back into your life and shun away bad ones.
16c

17a The Three of Wands in the Past position can represent a past event where you were cautious and forward thinking. It could have been a time when you didn’t rush into something but stayed back for a while and considered all options. You may have been extremely mature for your age and held more responsibility than average.
17a

17b The Three of Wands in the present position can mean you’re about to start a new aspect of your life. It’s important not to rush into whatever this is, but if you devote yourself to it fully, you’ll see results. This is especially relevant if you or someone close to you is going for a job with prospects for advancement.
17b

17c The Three of Wands in the future position can suggest a strong potential outcome, a life you are happy with if you’re willing to work for it. It isn’t about earning money, it’s about reaching your potential. Be creative now, and you’ll open more doors for yourself in the future.
17c

18a The Four of Wands in the Past position can represent a consistent effort on your part finally paying off. If you keep going as you have kept going, you will master the your chosen area of work or study.
18a

18b The Four of Wands in the present position means that you have to spend some time to know more and more about your chosen subject. if you’re working on something, ask for an outsiders opinion. People without knowledge of the area can give you a no-nonsense suggestion that you might not have considered.
18b

18c he Four of Wands in the future position can have a few meanings. there might be a bit event coming up that you’re going to be a part of. If you follow the rules, everything will turn out fine, so you should stop worrying.  If you’re at work, you might have done something well enough to warrant a celebration.
18c

19a The Five of Wands in the Past position can mean that you are still thinking over something bad that has happened, possibly a long time ago. This could an an argument, or a falling out. You might not even remember why it happened now. It’s come back to haunt you somehow, so you’ll need to find a way to iron out the issues.
19a

19b The Five of Wands in the present position means you may currently being going through a stressful period of your life. There might be some highly charged emotions being thrown around and you’re focusing on the negative or worst possible outcome. Don’t let your emotions get the best of you and lash out at the first opportunity. now is a good time to avoid conflict in all forms.
19b

19c The Five of Wands in the future position suggests a period of time in the future when you’re going to regret what has happened. It can also suggest future conflict, sometimes unavoidable. What could possibly happen in future that could lead to conflict? Think about it now to prepare for the future.
19c

20a The Six of Wands in the Past position means that may have many good experiences of the past, especially during childhood. It’s nice to think about good memories. Don’t get carried away or think your golden years were in the past. Try to think what triggered those good feelings and bring them into the present.
20a

20b The Six of Wands in the present position means there might be some good news coming. If you’ve been working hard, then expect it to pay off soon. Sometimes you need to let your hair down, especially if you’ve been focusing for a long time.
20b

20c The Six of Wands in the future position means you should use your good memories of the past to set an example for your future. In ten years, do you still want to be looking back on those memories, or newer, fresher better ones that you’ve made since? If you see obstacles in your way, work methodically to eradicate them. There is nothing truly blocking you.
20c

21a The Seven of Wands in the Past position could mean that you’ve spent a lot of time, hard work and energy getting to where you are now, but it’s time to reap the rewards. You’ve had to push past and exceed others to get where you are now. It’s good to think how well you’ve done to get here, if you feel down, just think about your past journey.
21a

21b The Seven of Wands in the present position can mean there’s an upcoming period of competition or conflict. You can come out on top though, but you’ll need to truly apply yourself if you want to succeed. it’s likely that there are a limited number of openings that many people are going for.
21b

21c The Seven of Wands in the future position suggests a long path of continued growth. Have you just started something new? Expect it to be an ever growing part of your life. This could be any aspect; a new job, relationship, hobby, friendship. Don’t feel as though the odds are stacked against you. If you’re overwhelmed, don’t get discouraged. Stop and try again.
21c

22a The Eight of Wands in the Past position can represent a time in the past when you acted rashly and it may not have paid off. Impatience is a tricky subject to deal with, everyone tackles it differently. Sometimes we have a mentality that it’s better to do something, anything, than nothing at all, even when doing nothing is the best course of action.
22a

22b The Eight of Wands in the present position has a mixed meaning. You could feel like you’re on a plateau in your life. Not much is going on and you want to make something of yourself. It’s best to try to avoid rushing into something, especially if this ‘thing’ is going to be taking up a large portion of your life. Do, however, try to jump into something trivial, and break up your schedule. Start a new after-hours class or group hobby.
22b

22c The Eight of Wands in the future position suggests a successful career or creation of something great and positive. It might be a case that you felt like you were just given a choice one day, out of the blue, and took it. It’s best never to make rash decisions, but it’s also just as bad to take too long to decide. Weigh up your future choices; how do they affect me, my friends, my family?
22c

23a The Nine of Wands in the Past position has represented a past period where you were required to put in a lot of effort. You may have come out with a few scrapes and bruises but the thing to keep in mind is that you beat it, whatever it was. This especially signifies something that you were initially afraid of. We always have trials in our life, how many times have you done something and realised it wasn’t a big deal in the end?
23a

23b The Nine of Wands in the present position means life is going steady. It’s time to enjoy things that you’ve worked for, or attained through other means.  If you’re feeling spontaneous, now is the time to just pack up some things and go explore. You might feel scared of the big wide world but the fear only comes from the unknown.
23b

23c The Nine of Wands in the future position can represent a fear of the future. We’re always afraid of what we don’t know, because we can’t accurately predict what it’ll do or how things will go. It’s just an aspect of life that we all have to deal with. Be careful not to live your life in a comfy bubble.
23c

24a The Ten of Wands in the Past position can represent past period where you were tied down. You’re free now but it is affecting your life. Do you feel as free as you should be? You certainly are. Take some time to think about the burdens you’ve freed yourself from.
24a

24b The Ten of Wands in the present position can mean that you currently feel stuck. There is always a way out, but it will be a challenge. Life is a series of challenges, not obstacles. Don’t feel like there is only one way forward.
24b

24c The Ten of Wands in the future position isn’t a great sign. Be sure you aren’t putting all your eggs in one basket, or setting up your life in a way that if one part of it fails, it all fails. Always have more than one backup just in case. Don’t think the near future is going to get easy through a quick fix.
24c

25a The Page of Wands in the Past position can represent, specifically, a person in your past who has affected your life. Likely a female, she had an adventurous and energetic personality. Maybe this was something you were jealous of. It can also represent the recent completion of something you were proud of, that is opening new doors for you.
25a

25b The Page of Wands in the present position is a good sign, that good news is coming. Are you looking to do something completely new? If so, you’re likely to do something memorable very soon.
25b

25c The Page of Wands in the future position can suggest a new leaf, a completely new paradigm for your life. Don’t worry if you’re currently enjoying your life, it’s only going to get better.
25c

26a The Knight of Wands in the Past position can represent a past time where you were spontaneous and acted quickly, although not without forethought; you were aware of the potential outcomes. You may have been extremely mature for your age as a child, or during school and you probably held more responsibility than average.
26a

26b The Knight of Wands in the present position can signify upcoming challenges; possibly one great challenge. You may be searching for meaning and may be longing for a journey. If you’re planning to get away, it’ll be good for you. If you haven’t got any plans, try to experience something completely new, such as an unvisited foreign country.
26b

26c The Knight of Wands in the future position can suggest a strong potential outcome, a life you are happy with if you’re willing to work for it. It isn’t about earning money, it’s about reaching your potential. You have to give it your all, through a mixture of passion, applied talent and effort. If you have a goal in mind, you must start today.
26c

27a The Queen of Wands in the Past position can represent a warm loving upbringing and consistent support throughout your childhood. In addition ,it’s likely that your mother, or a mother figure, had a career, as well as providing for your upbringing. This has had an effect on your life, it’s possible that you’re more career driven because of this.
27a

27b The Queen of Wands in the present position has a few meanings. You might be in a career that you’re enjoying and working hard in, and the Queen of Wands can reassure you that you’re going to have the time, energy and money to work how you want to; comfortably and free of stress. It can also represent a feminine influence in your life, usually somebody you can go to for advice, but also someone who will need your input soon.
27b

27c The Queen of Wands in the future can mean a cosy life in the future. Being open to the suggestions of others and not treating anything objective as ‘precious’ will lead you to work on and create great collaborations.
27c

28a The King of Wands in the Past position can represent a past event where you were cautious and forward thinking and acted more on theory than practice. It could be that your ideas of the past are finally coming into being now that you have the skills to create them.
28a

28b The King of Wands in the present position can mean that if you work hard in the area that you wish to succeed in, you will succeed. If you don’t give up, nothing can stop you. It may take time if you aren’t used to it, but keep going, as you can only improve. Work with others of similar skill, and don’t feel like you’ve been left behind. Help yourself.
28b

28c The King of Wands in the future position can suggest a strong potential outcome if your career. You’ll be happy with what you’re doing, especially if you’re concerned with, or work with money. You’ll need to take risks, but weigh them up and think about your past.
28c

29a The Ace of Pentacles in the Past position can represent coming from a privileged background. A well cared for childhood for example, or something more recent, maybe you’ve set yourself up very well and prepared for what is coming.
29a

29b The Ace of Pentacles in the present position means life is fine and well in a material sense. You are not wanting for more possessions. Things are going to go well for the foreseeable near future. Don’t panic or worry if anything bad has just happened, treat it as a learning experience.
29b

29c The Ace of Pentacles in the future position represents a material goal that will be achieved. A new house, car or similar. Imagine yourself climbing a mountain, there is a struggle but so long as you continue upwards you will reach the reward. People often say it as a joke, but you only fail if you give up. Persistence is key.
29c

30a The Two of Pentacles in the Past position can represent a life of constant change and adaptation. You may have moved locations or changed greatly as a person. Think about the good aspects of each and keep them, try to get rid of the bad habits.
30a

30b The Two of Pentacles in the present position has a few meanings. You could be balancing two aspects of your life; work and play, certain family and friends. It’s not advisable to continue. You have to understand what you really want and if you can keep doing this?
30b

30c The Two of Pentacles in the future position represents a wholesome balanced life if you continue positively. You need to address your current problems for future growth.
30c

31a The Three of Pentacles in the Past position can represent an intense period of study that is going to pay off. It can also mean that you’ve worked hard to get where you are now. If you keep going as you have kept going, you will master the subject you are studying.
31a

31b The Three of Pentacles in the present position means that you have to spend some time to know more and more about your chosen subject. This could mean sending a bit more time mastering something at work to get ahead, or understanding a concept or possibly even starting a hobby you’ve previously pushed away. Now is the time!
31b

31c The Three of Pentacles in the future position can have a few meanings. You might create a good piece of work that will be much use to others and used as an example in your field. For example you may be studying. Your current piece of work will be used as a good example. If you’re at work, you might redefine how things happen and come up with a more efficient way of doing things.
31c

32a The Four of Pentacles in the Past position can mean that you’ve set yourself up for the current position you’re in, most likely by hanging on to something in a material sense. Letting go of the past and breaking bonds is a natural way to move on, and sometimes a good way. It may seem difficult to even consider it, but thinking about it won’t hurt.
32a

32b The Four of Pentacles in the present position can mean that you’re holding on to things that you deem important. In the long run, remember that you can’t take them with you. Nobody, on their death bed, wanted to spend more time in the office making money. Understand what is most important to you.
32b

32c The Four of Pentacles in the future position suggests a sense of security in the form of material goods and finances. On the earthly plane you will be catered for. It’s time to look into what you really want to spend your time on this world doing. Look at the illustration on the card. The central character is standing on the Pentacles as well as holding one, and having one on top of his head. Financial wealth is his foundation, wealth is his property and wealth is in his thoughts. Do you want to be like this?
32c

33a The Five of Pentacles in the Past position can represent a past time when you were poor, or missing out in a way. Maybe you couldn’t go somewhere or do something you wanted for reasons out of your control. If you stopped yourself doing something, it’ll be helpful to think about why, maybe you’ve set up self imposed emotional barriers.
33a

33b The Five of Pentacles in the present position means life is tough, and doesn’t feel like it’s improving. You might have been through worse, you may not have. It could only be affecting some aspects of your life. If you are suffering, look to people to reach out to. You might think they can’t help you, but just telling someone will take the weight off.
33b

33c The Five of Pentacles in the future position suggests a future struggle that you will overcome. If you continue your life how you’re currently living it, it may be worse off in the long run. Are you taking advantage of something that is helping you out now? It won’t last forever. Try not to bring others with you if you have any destructive habits.
33c

34a The Six of Pentacles in the Past position can represent past generosity, on your part or another’s. Someone may have given you a great opportunity, although it’s more about things playing through the motions than you going out of your way to get it. You were following a path and reached the goal, which is where you currently stand. To give an example; it could mean that you’ve gone through a period of education and ended up somewhere you wanted initially, but now you’re unsure.
34a

34b The Six of Pentacles in the present position can in a way speak of current uncertainties. You may be blessed with someone and you’re unsure how to use it. Traditional techniques come to mind but it’s likely you need to get off autopilot and start a new approach. You might be engaging with others who have a completely different world-view to you; so in order to integrate, you’re going to need to adapt to their lifestyle, not the other way around.
34b

34c The Six of Pentacles in the future position suggests that you’ll eventually reach the path you’re currently on. You might be focusing too hard on this goal and experiencing tunnel vision. If you want to, take a step back and think about if this is what you really want.
34c

35a The Seven of Pentacles in the Past position could mean that you’ve spent a lot of time, hard work and energy getting to where you are now, but it’s time to reap the rewards. You may have an excellent grounding of a specific type of experience that you can help many others with.
35a

35b The Seven of Pentacles in the present position means life is slow and steady, you are reaping rewards of past sensible thinking and planning head for the future. Remember to be safe with whatever you are doing, take precaution. You might feel ‘stuck’ where you are now, and the Seven of Pentacles being drawn might mean you’re going to be here for a little while longer. You can make the most of it by doing your best in your current paradigm and eventually overcoming your boundaries.
35b

35c The Seven of Pentacles in the future position suggests a long path of continued growth. Have you just started something new? Expect it to be an ever growing part of your life. This could be any aspect; a new job, relationship, hobby, friendship.
35c

36a The Eight of Pentacles in the Past position can represent a path you are currently on, which you’re putting effort into. You might need to think clearly, or maybe it will be obvious,. What are you truly exerting yourself on? Are you really putting in the hours at work, are you extremely dedicated to your family or partner? Be aware that this dedication will pay off in future.
36a

36b The Eight of Pentacles in the present position has a mixed meaning. Here, the Eight of Pentacles represents a future path you could choose. Do you want to put the effort in and be rewarded? You might have a much easier option available to you. Don’t treat it is ‘it’s easy so it must be the wrong choice’. Instead, carefully weigh up the options.
36b

36c The Eight of Pentacles in the future position suggests a successful career or creation of something great and positive. For example, you may create something that will change how people live for the better, or a new way of doing something that eliminates all the negative consequences. This is a great sign if you’re already working on something similar sounding. If you aren’t, then definitely look into how what you do currently can help others.
36c

37a The Nine of Pentacles in the Past position has a few interpretations, and it’ll depend of what you had in mind when you dealt the spread. Did you have a spoiled childhood where everything was taken care of for you? Did you have well-off parents? It might be affecting you now, and you may be finding it harder to relate to those less privileged.
37a

37b The Nine of Pentacles in the present position means life is going steady. It’s time to enjoy things that you’ve worked for, or obtained through other means. Pentacles are all about materialism and objects. You might find the things you have lacklustre and want to keep moving on and moving on. Be careful not to get into a cycle of buying newer versions and buying into new trends simply because you’re bored. Understand that it’s all a cycle of buying, using, and stopping. Once you understand it’s a full circle, you’ll be better off without. If you’re feeling spontaneous, now is the time to just pack up some things and go explore.
37b

37c The Nine of Pentacles in the future position suggests a fairytale ending. It’s a good card to see in the future position, and should give you a sense of hope that everything will eventually work out. Think about that for a while though; do you think you’ll attain your goals and be happy, or later in life simply prioritize your goals? You don’t know where you’ll be in a few years time.
37c

38a The Ten of Pentacles in the Past position can represent a good financial foundation in your life. You may never have had to worry about money, or at least nowhere near to the degree that your peers do. Similar to The Nine of Pentacles, The Ten of Pentacles suggests that you might not have earned this foundation at all. Although this might sound like a bad thing, you aren’t arrogant or ignorant because of it ,so you’ve gained the best of both worlds.
38a

38b The Ten of Pentacles in the present position means life is fine and well. Things are going to go well for the foreseeable near future. Don’t panic or worry if anything bad has just happened, treat it as a learning experience. Think about your own skills are merits and how you can apply yourself on the world. You have the skills but might need a kickstart, so look for someone to motivate you.
38b

38c The Ten of Pentacles in the future position suggests a future struggle that you will overcome, especially regarding finances. This is a good placement, especially regarding business, charity or general finance. Don’t expect things to go smooth, but expect a good outcome eventually.
38c

39a The Page of Pentacles in the Past position can represent a past event where you were ambitious and concentrated. It could have been a time when you experienced a vision of what you wanted your life to turn out like, and it gave you great motivation. Do you need something like this now? Think back to that past time and try to remember how you felt to further motivate yourself and keep the dream fresh.
39a

39b The Page of Pentacles in the present position means life is fine and well. Things are going to change for the better in the near future. Don’t panic or worry if anything bad has just happened, treat it as a learning experience. You’re turning over a new leaf and there are loftier goals.
39b

39c The Page of Pentacles in the future position suggests a struggle that you will overcome. It could be that you’re in a tough position right now, but be mindful of the gains that you’ll receive if you just keep up what you’re doing.
39c

40a The Knight of Pentacles in the Past position can represent a past event where you were dedicated, loyal or responsible. It could have been a time when you were in charge of something. Do you need something like this now? If you’re struggling now, think back to that past time and try to remember how you felt to further motivate yourself. You might need to put things into perspective and work by priority.
40a

40b The Knight of Pentacles in the present position means you’ll be motivated and possibly inspired by somebody younger than you, especially if you’re currently bored with life. This could possibly mean someone physically younger, but can also mean somebody new to an activity that you’re a part of. Don’t be put out if they start doing better than you did when you were in their position.
40b

40c The Knight of Pentacles in the future position suggests that the near future will be structured and methodical. if you’re aiming for a goal, stick to the plans you’ve set out. Sometimes, people can ask things of us that disrupt what we want to do, but it’s usually better to help others over yourself first.
40c

41a The Queen of Pentacles in the Past position can represent a warm loving upbringing and consistent support throughout your childhood. You’ve been blessed in this regard. It can also mean that you’ve learned all the lessons in your childhood to grow into a well rounded and solid individual.
41a

41b The Queen of Pentacles in the present position has a few meanings. You might just be settling down, and the Queen of pentacles can reassure you that you’re going to have the time, energy and money to live how you want to; comfortably and free of stress. It can also represent a feminine influence in your life, usually somebody you can go to for advice. You might need them soon.
41b

41c The Queen of Pentacles in the future can mean a cosy life in the future. You’ve achieved everything you want and you spend your time enjoying yourself with smaller pursuits and helping others. You aren’t going to worry about the things you currently think of every day.
41c

42a The King of Pentacles in the Past position can represent a past event where you were cautious and forward thinking. It could have been a time when you didn’t rush into something but stayed back for a while and considered all options. You may have been extremely mature for your age and help more responsibility than average.
42a

42b The King of Pentacles in the present position can mean you’re going to have to look to someone in your life for advice. A ‘father-figure’ is the obvious port of call here, and you should take what they say seriously, even if they haven’t followed what they believe in. They may have the best advice, but just because they haven’t followed it doesn’t make them any less right.
42b

42c The King of Pentacles in the future position can suggest a strong potential outcome, a life you are happy with if you’re willing to work for it. It isn’t about earning money, it’s about reaching your potential. You have to give it your all, through a mixture of passion, applied talent and effort. If you have a goal in mind, you must start today.
42c

43a The Ace of Cups in the Past position can represent a past event where you were passionate and creative. It could have been a time when you experienced a good feeling of ‘flow‘. Do you need something like this now? Think back to that past time and try to remember how you felt to further motivate yourself.
43a

43b The Ace of Cups in the present position means life is fine and well. Things are going to go well for the foreseeable near future. Don’t panic or worry if anything bad has just happened, treat it as a learning experience. You’re turning over a new lead.
43b

43c The Ace of Cups in the future position suggests a future struggle that you will overcome. Imagine yourself climbing a mountain, there is a struggle but so long as you continue upwards you will reach the reward. People often say it as a joke, but you only fail if you give up. Persistence is key.
43c

44a The Two of Cups in the Past position highlights past relationships and how they have affected your life. Reflect on your past romantic relationships and long lasting friendships to see if there are any lessons that need to be learned.
44a

44b The Two of Cups in the present position means a new, good relationship may start. Look at ‘Romance’ and ‘Friends’ below. You never know what a relationship or friendship is going to be like when it starts. You could meet your soul mate any time soon.
44b

44c The Two of Cups in the future position suggests that you should look to your existing friendships and relationships for inspiration in the future. You know these people well, and nobody gets anywhere alone.
44c

45a The Three of Cups in the Past position could suggest a rough patch that you’ve been though. Have things been hard recently? you could just be getting through the last few stages of it. Look forward to it being over.
45a

45b The Three of Cups in the present position can mean that you’ve just finished something great. A personal project has been completed, or something that has had a lot of time put into it is over. Consider the illustration. They have worked all year to raise the harvest and it’s finally over.
45b

45c The Three of Cups in the future position gives you something to look forward to. We’re always doing projects and working hard. There is always something new. The cycle of work and rest is a balance we will continue to experience.
45c

46a The Four of Cups in the Past position can mean that you are recovering from something that happened in the past that you didn’t like. Think to some event that didn’t play out how you wanted it. Are you still thinking about it? how long has it been now? Time heals all wounds but don’t feel like you have to pretend to be happy when you aren’t.
46a

46b The Four of Cups in the present position means that you should start thinking outside the constraints that you have set on yourself. You might have been hurt in the past, but you don’t want that to continue on for much longer. We all need time to get over things so don’t rush yourself. But be aware that it’s up to you to try to help yourself and see from a different and new perspective.
46b

46c The Four of Cups in the future position can mean that there will be a period in the future that you’re going to have to stop, sit down and think about. Not necessarily a tough decision, but just something that you’re going to need to contemplate to understand.
46c

47a The Five of Cups in the Past position can mean that you are still thinking over something bad that has happened, possibly a long time ago. We frequently reach forks in the road of life and you may be feeling that one specific one has taken you the wrong way. It’s a dangerous business, walking. You step onto the road, and if you don’t keep your feet, there’s no knowing where you might be swept off to.
47a

47b The Five of Cups in the present position means you may currently being going through a stressful period of your life. There might be some highly charged emotions being thrown around and you’re focusing on the negative or worst possible outcome. Think of the hidden benefits that are currently being overshadowed by events.
47b

47c The Five of Cups in the future position suggests a period of time in the future when you’re going to regret what has happened. Are you currently consciously doing something wrong? You will regret it. Are you unsure about an upcoming decision? Think about it more and get some more opinions.
47c

48a The Six of Cups in the Past position means that you have had a standard and loving upbringing. You may have many good experiences of the past, especially during childhood. It’s nice to think about good memories. Don’t get carried away or think your golden years were in the past. You might also be thinking about a time in the past when you were very creative, but to you it seemed normal, like there was no other way around it. Peers however, thought it was an extremely good idea.
48a

48b The Six of Cups in the present position means you might be spending a bit too much time thinking about what you consider to be the best part of your life. Usually there isn’t much harm in thinking about the past but don’t dwell on it. You can have better experiences now if you want, nothing is stopping you.
48b

48c The Six of Cups in the future position means you should use your good memories of the past to set an example for your future. In ten years, do you still want to be looking back on those memories, or newer, fresher better ones that you’ve made since? Some of us fear change, but we look back and understand that it was for the best.
48c

49a The Seven of Cups in the Past position means you might have wasted a lot of time in your past being indecisive. Sometimes, when there are too many choices we can become overwhelmed. Use past lessons if you’re facing a similar situation now. Likewise, don’t think about the other choices you could have made. You can’t change it now. Do the best with what you have.
49a

49b The Seven of Cups in the present position means you might currently be overwhelmed with an abundance of choice. it might be too much, and each one may seem just as promising as the other. You have to cut down your options and choose which is best. There may even be no bad choice, but the key is to remember that you will have to make a decision; you can’t have it all.
49b

49c The Seven of Cups in the future position suggests an upcoming touch choice. You might have trouble deciding and it’s going to be a big drain on you. Right now you’re leading up to it, so if you know what it is, prepare now. Rule out what you don’t want.
49c

50a The Eight of Cups in the Past position means that a previous aspect of your life hasn’t worked out and you’re currently looking for something new. It might have gotten some way through but for whatever reason, you gave up on it. It might not have felt right, or you could have thought there were better things. This can be many things; a creative project, a relationship, a course of study. You have to break negative ties you to your past.
50a

50b The Eight of Cups in the present position means you’re going to experience something new, and it will be completely different. You need to break out of your shell. What’s keeping you tied up and constrained? You can’t be like this forever. Move towards what you want to do.
50b

50c The Eight of Cups in the future position suggests that a future aspect of your life might not go to plan. On the upside, however, it may lead you to new things. You really have to just go with the flow.
50c

51a The Nine of Cups in the Past position shows a past success; something you’re really proud of. It’s still affecting your life and thoughts. Achievements in life are what we all live for, whether it’s a new job or an exciting holiday or winning at a sport. Don’t stagnate on one thing and be known as the person who did ‘that’, you have to move onto bigger and better things always.
51a

51b The Nine of Cups in the present position means that it’s all going to work out. You might currently be struggling but remember if you don’t give up, you’ll succeed. Keep going. You’ll have something to be really proud of.
51b

51c The Nine of Cups in the future position shows you in the future. You might just be starting off on a project or course of study and having cold feet. Go with it and dedicate yourself.
51c

52a The Ten of Cups in the Past position can mean a few things. A positive upbringing in a stable family, or a good place to grow up that has set you up for the world. Peace, or a relative lack of conflict have been prevalent in your life so far.
52a

52b The Ten of Cups in the present position means things are going well. In a way, you might have escaped the thought patterns of needing to get better and improve at something. You’ve achieved what you set out to achieve. Look to a new adventure, or stay where you are for a while  longer.
52b

52c The Ten of Cups in the future position reminds you of that idyllic image of your ideal life. You have to work hard to get there, but when you do, you’ll think nothing of the struggle. Things like mastery in your field, and people looking up to you for whichever reason will be common.
52c

53a The Page of Cups in the Past position can clearly state your childhood, if that is of any importance. If you’re focusing on the recent past, it relate to a particular event where you experienced a sort of childlike curiosity or possibly naivety. For better or worse you might not have understood a situation and the whole thing went over your head.
53a

53b The Page of Cups in the present position has a few interpretations. If you have children, expect a significant upcoming event. Maybe they’re starting to walk or talk, it’ll be memorable. If you don’t, expect to get acquainted with somebody younger than you. They might be able to show you a new perspective on life, or help you refocus on something you’re concentrating on completing.
53b

53c The Page of Cups in the future position can mean that you’re currently not grasping 100% what you’re doing, but for whatever reason, you’re doing okay at it. Don’t worry, in the future you’ll understand. It might signify a period of relaxing and leisure in the near future, an upcoming holiday or break period.
53c

54a The Knight of Cups in the past position can represent a past time of good activity, definitely a high point in your life where you were progressing as you wanted to. You were reaching new horizons that you’ve since travelled far beyond.
54a

54b The Knight of Cups in the present position can mean you’re currently on a plateau as far as life is concerned. You might be thinking about your next adventure and looking for new goals. It could be that you feel stuck where you are now, and you’re waiting for a way out, usually a favour someone owes you or a task that only you are able to complete.
54b

54c The Knight of Cups in the future position reminds you to stay focused. To truly succeed in anything,you initially need passion and a clear goal at the start. As you move on, you need willpower and mental strength.
54c

55a The Queen of Cups in the past position can mean of remind you of an influential female in your life. Usually for the better, this people has helped you on your way. It could have been a good teacher or other parental figure, but this person has instilled some good values. It can also represent you in the past; particularly an event where you had to be passionate, patient and understanding.
55a

55b The Queen of Cups in the present position can mean that you’re currently going through a period in your life that requires you to be more patient and mature than normal. You may have just been put in charge of children, or people less mature than you who you need to keep your eye on. It shouldn’t be too much to worry about. Try to put your own good values in the people you meet and inspire them.
55b

55c The Queen of Cups in the future position can mean that in the future, you’re going to go through a period described above. It could be in a caring situation, but the point to stress is that you’ll have to be patient and understanding. You’ll have to put on a brave face when things take a down turn. In effect, you will be the rock for other people.
55c

56a The King of Cups in the past position can represent you in the recent past. You may have been the arbiter in an conflict or argument, or it could refer to someone close to you who was; usually a male in a position of power. These events are still affecting how your life is being played out. Perhaps a decision was made, and you are still following it.
56a

56b The King of Cups in the present position has a few meanings. Firstly, you may have to make a tough decision. It’s best to think it over and take the more ‘adult’ choice, rather that just jump in and choose what seems to be the most energetic and spontaneous. Secondly, it could mean that you’re about to come into contact with somebody who is able to help you greatly. You should really listen to what they are going to say.
56b

56c The King of Cups in the future position suggests you should actively look for somebody to help you along the way. A business partner or a friend to help with studying or general life issues. Look for someone older than you, especially if you’re currently in a rut. In the long term, the King of Cups can also mean a happily balanced life, full of intelligence and stimulation.
56c

57a The Fool in the Past position could represent a time in the past where you could have taken another route and ended up somewhere different than where you are now. It could also mean that you have already set things into motion that will produce a new path for the person in question.  It can also represent time wasted.
57a

57b The Fool in the present position places the person in the mind of the fool, but in their current position. They could be about to abandon something, or are looking for new horizons and wanting to enter a new phase of life.
57b

57c The Fool in the future position relates to, unsurprisingly, a future journey. Not a literal journey where you pack things up, but a personal and spiritual journey. New goals, desires and attainment of new knowledge await.
57c

58a The Magician in the past position shows you have achieved something in the past, whether you feel the achievement or not doesn’t matter, but you are still benefiting from it.
58a

58b The Magician in the present position represents your ambition and confidence. You might have just started a project or a new job.
58b

58c The Magician in the future position represents your potential. As said above, the magician is a good card. Maintain your vision and see it through. Don’t get distracted by side projects, and don’t think you know everything just because you’ve started.
58c

59a The High Priestess in the past position shows a time in the past where you have had to be patient to proceed. Maybe all that time studying a dull subject, or waiting in a long queue for an important matter.
59a

59b The High Priestess in the present position suggests you should avoid conflict and action and ‘mull over’ the things you’re being told. They may just be an illusion, or, someone is telling you one thing but hinting on the bigger picture.
59b

59c The High Priestess in the future position represents possibly coming required patience, or the unveiling of a secret that you might not be privy too, or will overhear.
59c

60a The Empress in the Past position represents a past female influence. This could be anything from a role model to mother, or even a bully, but the aspect to identify is that it is still having an impact on you and should be dealt with. If asked in regards to your family, it could be related to your Mother. If you’re asking about education or work, it could be that a female teacher or colleague is having an influence on you. Romance isn’t implied, but don’t ignore it.
60a

60b The Empress in the present position represents a new beginning, but not in the sense of starting right away. You may have just completed a task and are looking for the next project to work on. It’ll come. You could be bored and unsatisfied in your life. The Maternal feeling in the card is strong, so maybe an older, more experienced feminine person can aid you.
60b

60c The Empress in the future position is the best position it can land in. Are you in a relationship now? If so, you or your partner is ‘becoming’ The Empress. This is a good sign. If you’re asking about work, it could be that things will pan out, eventually, and reach a comfortable plateau.
60c

61a The Emperor in the Past position represents a strong past paternal presence. A good teacher or father who guided you who taught you lessons that still come in handy today. The Emperor is conservative with traditional values. Maybe you were brought up in such a household, or taught by somebody who paid attention to the rules.
61a

61b The Emperor in the present position represents a current paradigm of rules and regulations, or a strong and well known person. If you’re in the position to, you might meet somebody famous, or somebody who will guide you down a new way of organisation and thinking.
61b

61c The Emperor in the future position suggests a level of stability or a change of mindset to perceived stability. Your political views may change, or you may consider working ‘by the book’ instead of trying new techniques. You may also be working in the same field for a long time, but this isn’t a bad thing; you’ll learn a lot and becoming an expert at the techniques you use.
61c

62a The Hierophant in the past position could represent a past allegiance or membership of a group, club, or even a strong ethnic bond that has moulded how you think and feel. Perhaps you were brought up in a strong religious family. It could still be affecting the way you think about certain topics. Remember that you’re an individual and you need to make your own mind up, not listen to dogma.
62a

62b The Hierophant in the present position could represent a new belief system taking hold, or a new cause to fight for. Right now, you might feel a bit lost or aimless, but don’t act irrationally. It’s not a time to jump in and ‘wing it’. Looking at established material in the field you’re interested in will help you hone and perfect yourself. Know yourself.
62b

62c You don’t really need to plan. Just letting the paths of the future wind act as they want will be enough. Eventually it will work out, but not in regards to mundane matters, something great is coming.
62c

63a The Lovers in the Past position means that a previous relationship has grounded you in good stead for the present and future. Not wholly meaning a relationship with a member of the opposite sex, but it should be an aspect that you shouldn’t consider changing for a while. It’s doing good, whether you are single or in a relationship. If you are single, it could represent a strong parental bond or a single close friendship. Perhaps you were raised in a non traditional family, also.
63a

63b The Lovers in the present position represents a good relationship. You understand each other and are growing together. Both of you are offering two sides of the same coin, a good balance. Think of the Taijitu, you are both separate but retain the other within. Are you arguing with your spouse right now? If it’s about something trivial, just think about it and put it in perspective. If it’s more serious, again, think about it. It’s common when something bad happens to just try not to think about things, to ignore them. Go somewhere alone and do your best to think about every aspect of what happened.
63b

63c The Lovers in the future position is great if you are single right now. It’s the sort of meaning that anyone can see. Love in the future. The standard tarot response. ‘Things will get better’. Remember in the Bible story; that Adam and Eve were in paradise and were kicked out. Don’t get disheartened.
63c

64a The Chariot in the Past position represents a past victory or success that is currently carrying you. You have to look to new horizons while maintaining the current balance. You may have started a new job or graduated from a new class recently. The aim is to look at your achievement, learn from them, and think where to go.
64a

64b The Chariot in the present position shows that you are about to, or are currently in the process of achieving something. You could be in the application process for a job you’ll eventually get, or learn a great deal from. The Prince has a Neutral look on his face. Though achieving, there is always a greater goal.
64b

64c The Chariot in the future position gives you something to look forward to. Are you just laying the ground work for a new project? The Chariot is at it’s strongest when in the future position. Just be sure to be yourself. Working alone, in fact, might be good for you.
64c

65a Strength in the Past position represents a time in the past when you have taken control of something and it has really paid off, it’s put you where you are now! You probably aced that exam or got that promotion, or passed that driving test! Well done!  It’s given you the boost you need!
65a

65b Strength in the present position represents your burgeoning mastery of your field. Things are getting better, just continue what you’re doing and everything will be okay. You’ve come out on top.
65b

65c Strength in the future position is a good sign. Anything that is bothering you now will seem like nothing in the near future. It happens all time time. Just think about your worries generally. How often do you think about things that happened six months, one year, five years ago, that used to affect you so much then, but now just have no impact? Time deals with all your problems.
65c

66a The Hermit in the Past position represents prior solitude and rest after a long journey. You might have learned a big life lesson recently and you need time alone now to reflect.
66a

66b The Hermit in the present position means you’ve got to look within for answers. You know all you need, you just need to contemplate for a bit. Like an ancient astronomer trying to work out the fabric of the universe; you have all the tools you need, you just need to work on your own thoughts and perception.
66b

66c The Hermit in the future position means one of two things. You could have thought about what is troubling you for long enough to make a realisation and go on with your life, or you might be reaching this point very soon.
66c

67a The Wheel of Fortune in the Past position represents a big change in your past that is currently affecting your life. These are usually big changes, like moving home or starting a new job, or relationship. Whatever the change, it’s having an effect now. Take into account other cards in your spread to interpret the changes. Any swords cards? It could be a past time of violence.
67a

67b The Wheel of Fortune in the present position represents a current ongoing change. You could have felt lost for a while and pondered on something (like The Hermit. This is the journey of The Fool you know!), and you’ve just recently found the answer to it. It’s a good card to see in the present position, as it means a good change is currently ongoing, and you’ll be able to see immediate effects of it.
67b

67c The Wheel of Fortune in the future position means you’re setting yourself up for a bit change in your life. The card is generally positive, so works well in the future position. It’s something to look forward to at least. Consider what was in your mind when you decided to do this reading, and then consider what is a good outcome of that particular scenario. The Wheel of Fortune in the future position likely represents that.
67c

68a Justice in the Past position represents a past decision that is playing out now and currently affecting your life. It doesn’t mean that your choice was good or bad, just that it is currently affecting your motions. Justice usually represents large decisions like moving house, a new job ,a new partner.
68a

68b Justice in the present position means you have a big decision ahead of you. Usually we’re faced with decisions every day, but Justice means that your choice could affect other people a great deal and drastically change your life. Are you currently thinking about a new path to take?
68b

68c Justice in the future position means you are working towards a large decision. You might have to choose between two jobs, or two partners. there will be enough time to think it over, but treat this as a forewarning.
68c

69a The Hanged Man in the Past position represents something in the past that you’ve gotten rid of, and for the better. Sacrifice seems harsh at first, but we truly grow from it. Think about how you’ve grown from all the things you’ve given up in the past.
69a

69b The Hanged Man in the present position represents that you’re facing a choice or decision. You might have to give something up to go the right way. It could, for example, mean moving away and having to give up local connections, or going to a new job or school and losing your circle of friends and acquaintances.
69b

69c The Hanged Man in the future position means you’ll face an upcoming decision. We face choices every day from the moment we wake up. Deciding when to get up is usually the first choice for many of us. Start your day right with motivation and a goal each day. Set goals and achieve them.
69c

70a Death in the Past position means that you have recently moved into a new era of your life. There may have been some sacrifice, or it might have been difficult. For example, you may have just ended a relationship, and the pain is still wearing on you. This is likely the best position to see Death in, as you know the hardest parts are behind you.
70a

70b Death in the present position represents an upcoming event or person that will come into your life soon. The wheels are already in motion. It will change your current paradigm of daily life. It could be on your mind daily, as something to worry about or possibly something to anticipate. You’ve got to remember that in one, five or ten years, you won’t even think about it. It’s going to affect you now, but time heals all wounds.
70b

70c Death in the future position represents an event that will happen in the near future. There is always going to be some sorrow in our lives. It’s an element of life that you cannot escape. Don’t dwell on it or worry about it, because it will happen eventually. You likely don’t spend every day worrying about dying, even though you are going to. Use this same mentality for your daily worries and nothing will phase you.
70c

Past – Temperance in the Past position means that things have been relatively stress free in the recent past. It’s acted as a good foundation for you to thrive in whichever field you’re interested in. It can also represent a tragic past event that you’ve grown from and it has made you who you are.
Present – Temperance in the present position means you should be practising moderation. don’t go overboard, don’t overwork yourself, you’ll only wear yourself out. If anything bad is happening in your life, remind yourself that it’s going to end soon. Temperance means that balance will be back in your life.
Future – The future position is the best position for temperance when used in a time based spread. It means that things will work out in future. Things will be balanced.


71a Temperance in the Past position means that things have been relatively stress free in the recent past. It’s acted as a good foundation for you to thrive in whichever field you’re interested in. It can also represent a tragic past event that you’ve grown from and it has made you who you are.
71a

71b Temperance in the present position means you should be practising moderation. don’t go overboard, don’t overwork yourself, you’ll only wear yourself out. If anything bad is happening in your life, remind yourself that it’s going to end soon. Temperance means that balance will be back in your life.
71b

71c The future position is the best position for temperance when used in a time based spread. It means that things will work out in future. Things will be balanced.
71c

72a The Devil in the Past position means that you have overcome a period of materialism, excessive fandom or addiction. You may have been really ‘into’ something, and you’ve finally escaped it. It could be anything, a TV show, a drug, a person. You were hooked on it but you got away from it. Learn to understand what made you fall into the trap of addiction and do not make the same mistake again. The Devil in the past position is a good sign, as it means it’s all behind you.
72a

72b The Devil in the present position could mean a few things. As a tarot card, The Devil has many interpretations and has changed a lot over the years. Currently, you might be addicted to something, but you have no idea. is there something you do that you’re ashamed of? Something you wouldn’t tell anybody about? It’s time to stop. You can only grow as a person with sacrifice and willpower. You might currently feel trapped or in a situation that is ongoing and you feel like you’ll never escape. Understand that this is the present, and it won’t always be like this.
72b

72c The Devil in the future position is not a good sign. Beware that something in future might attract you and it won’t be good for your personal growth. You might get enamoured with a person who isn’t for you, or fall into a trend that is generally detrimental. To combat it, you have to be sure of yourself, and in sound mind; think about what you want from life.
72c

73a The Tower in the Past position means that you may have had a traumatic event happen in your past. It could be distant or recent, but it is still affecting you. Sometimes we experience things that we can’t live with and our senses are overloaded trying to comprehend it. A sudden dead, a cheating spouse or even something as big as a natural disaster. You have to remember that it happened in the past and you are still around, living with it in your head. You’ve grown since, try to understand how much you’ve changed.
73a

73b The Tower in the present position means that a conflict is just around the corner, or is currently ongoing. Try to deal with it as best you can. Arguments might happen a bit easier, and there might be something on your mind.
73b

73c The Tower in the future position represents coming challenges that are going to be extremely disrupting to your regular life. Just as it was happening now, when it comes, try to deal with it in the present. Worrying never helps. Can you see the signs of something falling apart already? It may well be that the inevitable is going to happen, but having some foreknowledge will help you a lot.
73c

74a The Star in the Past position means that you could be recovering from a past altercation or conflict. This isn’t necessarily a physical conflict, it could also mean a period of stress. Realise that it’s all over now and you can start your recovery.
74a

74b The Star in the present position represents a current period of peace that you’re enjoying. You might have just accomplished something great! It’s always good to have downtime, you don’t want worldly pursuits to overcome who you really are. If you’ve just accomplished something big at work or school, congratulations. Treat the present as a time to relax, recoup and reflect on your achievement.
74b

74c The Star in the future position could mean that you’re currently struggling with something. Don’t worry, you’ll overcome it one way or the other. The struggle could mean that you’re looking at something from only one point of view. Get a dual approach .Ask somebody you wouldn’t normally ask. Put your trust in someone new.
74c

75a The Moon in the Past position might mean that you’ve remembered something in the past incorrectly. It could be an event of how you have perceived a person. Have you just seen somebody recently after a long time? They’ve likely changed by now. Have you witnessed an event that is coming up in conversation now? Be careful not to exaggerate, even if it is human nature to.
75a

75b The Moon in the present position could mean that something is about to happen, or is currently happening that you can’t initially understand. Unlike The Fool, you aren’t completely ignorant. You might expect an outcome that won’t occur, or things might not go to plan. The key is a lack of clarity. We worry about the unknown. A fear of the dark is not a fear of a lack of light, it’s the fear of what you can’t see. You won’t ever see unless you go out there.
75b

75c The Moon in the future position may mean that you’re unsure of where your life is going. It isn’t an exaggeration to say that everybody feels this way, even the people with the most cemented views on life. You just can’t know. We perceive time linearly, this is a rule you cannot break. Spend less time worrying about the future and more time bettering the present. You are only ever here and it is only ever now.
75c

76a The Sun in the Past position means that you’re coming out of a really good phase of your life. Don’t treat it as it’s over, treat it as a good foundation to work from. If you think of your body as a building, say, a temple, it must have good foundations both physical in actual construction, and good foundations in morality, truth and selflessness.
76a

76b The Sun in the present position represents a good period of time that you’re about to enter, or are currently residing in. Get ready for new opportunities and new people. You may feel extremely calm right now and fulfilled, like nothing can get to you. It’s a feeling we all strive for. Congratulations.
76b

76c The Sun in the future position represents the feeling of fulfilment that you will have when you have completed what you’re working on. Apathy is death, but to strive to achieve is to live.
76c

77a Judgement in the Past position means there might have been an event in the past where you have jumped to conclusions, and whatever the outcome, it is still affecting you now. It could have been an emotional outburst that was unwarranted. It may also mean that everything you’ve done to work up to this point is going to be forgotten. This isn’t always a bad thing; you are closing that chapter of your life and turning over anew leaf.
77a

77b Judgement in the present position means that you may be called to talk about your actions soon. Have you been acting in secret? People may know. Likewise, you may know someone has been trying to keep something hidden and now is the time to approach them about it. If it feels like you’re doing something wrong in regards to a person, own up to it before they find it out.
77b

77c Judgement in the future position mean that the choices you’ve made now are going to have a noticeable effect on the future. Even the smallest decision can affect the future in more ways than we will ever know. It’s also the choices we don’t make that can matter. Remember not to put off or procrastinate in the mean time. Judgement day can come at any time, so you have to keep true to yourself until it does.
77c

78a The World in the Past position means that things are coming full circle. In a manner of thought, time is cyclical. Months go by and come back again, weeks are but short rotations of the same seven days. Make sure you understand you past and don’t make the same mistakes that might throw you back to where you started.
78a

78b The World in the present position means that you might feel like you’ve done it all and there’s nothing else to conquer. Help others realise their goals. If there’s something you’ve wanted for a while, it may very well appear very soon. Different viewpoints will help you here, as they always will.
78b

78c The World in the future position suggests that you need to find your destiny. You may not believe you have a purpose, but even as a single person, you can make change. Don’t be afraid of failure, take up a new project and run with it. Think about what you want from life, are you currently on the path to do this?
78c
